.TH CHRONYC-RS 1 "July 2026" "chrony-rs 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
chronyc-rs \- chrony-rs command-line control client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chronyc-rs
[\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-h\fR \fIhost\fR] [\fB\-p\fR \fIport\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-d\fR]
\fIcommand\fR [\fIargs...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
chronyc-rs is the command-line interface for controlling chronyd-rs.
It communicates with the daemon via UDP port 323.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
CSV output mode.
.TP
.B \-h \fIhost\fR
Hostname or IP of daemon (default: 127.0.0.1).
.TP
.B \-p \fIport\fR
Command port (default: 323).
.TP
.B \-n
No DNS resolution (print IP addresses).
.TP
.B \-d
Debug/verbose output.
.TP
.B \-v
Print version.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B tracking
Query daemon tracking parameters.
.TP
.B activity
Query daemon activity.
.TP
.B sources
Query daemon sources.
.TP
.B sourcestats
Query daemon sourcestats.
.TP
.B serverstats
Query daemon server stats.
.TP
.B ntpdata
Query NTP data for sources.
.TP
.B clients
Query client accesses.
.TP
.B manual
Manual time input (list, delete, on, off, reset).
.TP
.B rtcdata
Query RTC parameters.
.TP
.B authdata
Query authentication data.
.TP
.B smoothing
Query time smoothing.
.TP
.B selectdata
Query source selection data.
.TP
.B reselect
Force source reselection.
.TP
.B settime
Set daemon time.
.TP
.B local
Configure local reference mode.
.TP
.B addserver
Add a new NTP server.
.TP
.B deletesource
Remove a source.
.TP
.B burst
Burst measurements.
.TP
.B online
Set sources online.
.TP
.B offline
Set sources offline.
.TP
.B allow
Allow NTP access.
.TP
.B deny
Deny NTP access.
.TP
.B cmdallow
Allow command access.
.TP
.B cmddeny
Deny command access.
.TP
.B shutdown
Shut down daemon.
.TP
.B writertc
Write RTC file.
.TP
.B trimrtc
Trim RTC.
.TP
.B makestep
Step the clock or configure.
.TP
.B password
Send password to daemon.
.TP
.B help
Print help.
.TP
.B version
Print version.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chronyd-rs (8)
